
<h1>COSMOS Cluster 7 2023 Science Team</h1>
<h4>Cynthia, Tavisha, Sebastian, Ethan, Harjyot, Anastasia </h4>
<p>The Science Team worked to use radios, GPS, and sensors (pH, TDS, ORP, and Dissolved Oxygen) to make a buoy that attaches to the USVs, collects data from the water, and sends that data to the database via radio. We also attempted to send sensors underwater using a winch to collect data from different depths. </p>
<p>The code that we used for our final test run at the lake is in the file "thecodethatworks.ino". When we first started our project, we were all unfamiliar with C++, so we started using lists of characters in "big-code-thing.ino". We later found that using a String object, although it caused other problems, would be easier. We began using String objects in "editedCodeWithString.ino" and "buoy1.ino," but realized at the lake that the radio wasn't sending the final String object. We quickly rewrote the code using at the lake using the individual code for each sensor and GPS, which we knew worked. Finally, we used the code in "thecodethatworks.ino" at the lake to collect data. Unfortunately, some of the data, such as the pH was not accurate, even though we calibrated the sensor beforehand. However, we took note of the inaccurate values when the sensor was placed in each calibration solution, so the data science team was able to calculate the correct pH of the lake afterward. The data from the GPS was accurate and precise, but data from the DO and ORP were not changing throughout. This may have been because the membrane of the DO meter was broken and ??ORP?? We were not able to implement the TDS meter in time.</p>
<p>After we went to the lake, we continued building our winch to drop the sensors underwater. The code for the winch can be found in the "testing" folder.</p>
